# Certificate

Copyable Perishable Eternal

Certificate is an Uncommon Effect Joker that adds a playing card with a random rank, suit, and random Seal to the player's hand when a round begins. The card stays in the player's deck for future rounds.

Much of Certificate's power comes from it being able to generate a large amount of Seals, which are very difficult to get normally. Seals are incredibly powerful if built around, which makes an early Certificate incredibly valuable to shaping a run. The Seals are random, so it may be less valuable to buy Certificate in the hopes of generating only one out of the four Seals. All of the Seals can be useful, though, and even undesired Seals can be built around.

To unlock this Joker, the player must have a Gold Card () with a Gold seal.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Magic Deck ( Start run with the voucher and copies of Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) is incredibly powerful in combination with Certificate. Mainly, the extra consumable slot lets Purple and Blue Seals make another consumable, but the Fools you start with are also very strong. They can be used as Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. ) Cards to copy a powerful Seal, suit-changers to make the Seals playable in the desired hand, Strength (Increases rank of up to selected cards by Available from start. ) Cards to push the Sealed card to a more desirable rank, or enhancement-appliers to stack beneficial effects on a Sealed card.

- Red Deck ( ) is able to make more use of Certificate's Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ) due to having more discards.

- Painted Deck ( hand size, <br> Joker slot Win a run with any [[Decks|deck]] ) loves using better cards or poker hands, since it has fewer Joker slots, and Certificate provides a bonus to both of those. Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) are easier to hold with Painted Deck's larger hand size, and it's easier to find Gold () and Red Seals () to play. Best of all, Certificate can be sold in most circumstances, but the benefits it has provided remain.

- Zodiac Deck ( Start run with , , and Win a run with any [[Decks|deck]] ) can use its extra Tarot cards to more easily manipulate the Sealed cards from Certificate, and occasionally further scale planet levels with its extra planet cards.

- Abandoned Deck ( Start run with no [[Card Ranks#Face cards|]] in your deck Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] )'s reduced size and Mad World ( Extra no longer earn money<br>Earn no at end of round Eternal, Negative <br>Eternal Ranks 2 through 9 only, 32 cards totalBanned Blinds: )'s reduced size make it easier to find the produced Seal cards after they've been added to the deck. It's also easier to flood Abandoned Deck and Mad World with high-quality cards, since there are fewer bad cards to potentially draw.

### Poker Hands

- No specific poker hand directly benefits from Certificate, but any of them can be leveled up with its generated Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ). Hands that benefit more from planet cards therefore indirectly benefit more.

- Since the cards generated by Certificate are high-value duplication targets, it can be easier to make powerful Five of a Kinds or Flush Fives.

- If Certificate is held for a long time or is Eternal (), then lower value poker hands like High Card and Pair that do not rely on finding specific cards can be easier to find with many extra random cards in the deck.

### Jokers

Any Joker that benefits from Seals can synergize with Certificate, theoretically. It can be frustrating sometimes if you take Certificate hoping for a specific Seal and continuously get others that are useless to you. It is more beneficial and reliable to build around the Seals that Certificate gives than to try and force it to conform to an existing build. For example, having it for 3-5 rounds, letting it generate random Seals, then selling it, allows you to craft your build to use the Seals you've been given. This is especially true for Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ).

- Certificate synergizes extremely well with Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} ), as the added cards add to Hologram's scaling.

- Jokers that add effects to cards, like Fibonacci (Each played , , , , ), Arrowhead (), and Photograph (), or that scale off card triggers, like Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} ) and Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} ), greatly appreciate the Red Seals () Certificate makes. This is another example of how it's best to build around what Certificate provides; a Red Seals () on a 3 is useless to Wee and Photograph, but very good for Fibonacci. Tarots can be used to manipulate these Red Seal () cards to work with these kinds of Jokers, so Tarot-generators can be helpful, though Certificate may make Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ) to fill that role.

- Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) work well with other held-in-hand effects, so Jokers like Mime () and Raised Fist () can help bolster those effects, and help the High Card that held-in-hand builds rely on so much to get some planet scaling. Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. ) and Baron () are less immediately useful, though, since their rank is only a 1/13 chance to be selected for the Sealed card. These effects also all appreciate the retriggers of Red Seal ().

- Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) are also very strong with planet-focused builds, since they can scale your desired poker hand by upwards of three levels per round. Other sources of poker hand levels, like Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. ) and Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] ) (though less for Space, you're likely to win in one hand early with a high-leveled hand), can help to increase that scaling further, and Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} ) will gain more scaling. Since these builds often get all their chips from their poker hand, it also allows for more Economy, + Mult, and XMult Jokers.

- Gold Seals () are less useful for direct Joker synergies, but they can contribute greatly to your economy, making them synergize well with economy-based scalers like Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} ) and Bull ( for each you have <br> }} ), and is extremely strong with Retrigger Jokers such as Hanging Chad ().

- Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ) can produce a ton of Tarot cards in large enough quantities, providing a source of manipulating the Sealed cards generated and a strong economy boost from certain Tarots. At worst, the Tarots generated can be sold for $1, making them budget Gold Seals (). Ways of scaling off Tarot cards, like Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} ) and Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ), appreciate the Tarots Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ) generate, and suit/rank based Jokers like Onyx Agate () and Scholar () enjoy the additional copies of their suit/rank that Tarots can create. Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. ) can work well if a Purple Seal (Creates a card when <br> ) is generated on a Jack, since the Tarot created may help in making even more Purple Seal (Creates a card when <br> ) Jacks to scale Hit The Road.

- Because Certificate's effect triggers on blind selection, Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] ) and Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . ) can copy it, then moved to copy another Joker for the actual hands.

- DNA (If of round has only card, ) loves copying a high-value Seal created by Certificate.

- Because Certificate creates so much value in the playing cards themselves, Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} ) is easier to use since fewer Jokers are required for scoring or other effects.

- The Hanging Chad () and Photograph () combo gets great use out of Red Seal (), Blue Seal (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) and Gold Seals ().

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} ) will gain 2 Chips every blind. Also, due to the fact that Certificate bypasses hand size temporarily, one extra card will remain in deck and will make Blue Joker more valuable.

### Vouchers

- Wasteful () and Recyclomancy () both give +1 discard, which allows the player to find more useful Sealed cards, especially Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ).

- Paint Brush ( ) and Palette ( hand size Reduce your hand size down to five cards. ) both increase hand size, which makes it easier to hold Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) and also find Gold () and Red Seals () to play.

- Crystal Ball ( ) gives +1 consumable slot, allowing the Purple Seal (Creates a card when <br> ) and Blue Seal (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) to make another Tarot and Planet card.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Checkered Deck ( ) starts with only  Spades and  Hearts, while Certificate can still add  Club and  Diamond cards, which can make Certificate harder to use.

- Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] )'s -1 Consumable Slot makes it harder to work with Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) and Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ).

### Poker Hands

- If Certificate is held for a long time or is Eternal (), then higher value poker hands like Straight and Four of a Kind that rely on finding specific cards can be much harder to find with many extra random cards in the deck.

### Jokers

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} ) relies on a small deck size, which is more difficult to get when 1 card is added per round from Certificate.

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ), Banner ( ), Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), and Ramen (, ) all discourage the use of Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ), and Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, ) straight up disables them.

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. ) makes it harder to look for Purple Seals (Creates a card when <br> ) and Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ).

## Usage Notes

- The Fragile ( 2x Eternal, Negative Standard 52-card deck, all glassAll methods of adding non-glass cards or removing glass enhancements are banned:
*[[Jokers]]: , , and 
*[[Tarot Cards]]: , , , , , , and 
*[[Spectral Cards]]: , , and 
*[[Vouchers]]: and 
*[[Booster Packs]]: Standard Pack
*[[Tags]]: ) challenge bans Certificate.

- When Certificate adds a sealed card at the beginning of the round, it is put directly into your hand, bypassing the normal hand size temporarily.

- Certificate does not prevent the player from dying when they have a hand size of zero or below, since the game checks the hand size before Certificate can activate.

## Trivia

- Unlike other Jokers that activated "When a blind is selected", Certificate activates "when a round begins", which is when the initial hand is drawn. This means Blueprint / Brainstorm can be used to copy for example Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. ) / Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, ), then immediately moved over to copy Certificate after clicking Select Blind (Best done at speed 0.5x / 1x).

- In early demos, the effect of Certificate was X2 mult for each Gold Seal () card when played and scored. This is reflected by that its unlock condition is related to Gold Seal ().

- The Joker art is a typical style of real-life certificates, with a seal and signature (J. Joker).

- According to LocalThunk, the art of Certificate used to include a seal (the marine mammal), which is an obvious pun.1]

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Internal | j_certificate |
| Chinese (Simplified) | 证书 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 證書 |
| Dutch | Certificaat |
| French | Certificat |
| German | Zertifikat |
| Indonesian | Certificate |
| Italian | Certificato |
| Japanese | 証明書 |
| Korean | 증명서 |
| Polish | Świadectwo |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Certificado |
| Russian | Сертификат |
| Spanish (Spain) | Certificado |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Certificado |

## References

- ↑ "certificate used to have 🦭 art" LocalThunk in Balatro Discord

 d • eRS3 Jokers in Balatro Arrowhead ()

- Banner ( )

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} )

- Bull ( for each you have <br> }} )

- Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} )

- Clever Joker ( )

- Crafty Joker ( )

- Devious Joker ( )

- Hiker ()

- Ice Cream (<br> )

- Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Runner (Gains if played hand contains a <br> }} )

- Scary Face ()

- Sly Joker ( )

- Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} )

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. )

- Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

- Wily Joker ( )
 Jokers Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} )

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. )

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} )

- Crazy Joker ( )

- Droll Joker ( )

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} )

- Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

- Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} )

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} )

- Gluttonous Joker ()

- Greedy Joker ()

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} )

- Gros Michel (<br> )

- Half Joker ( )

- Joker ( )

- Jolly Joker ( )

- Lusty Joker ()

- Mad Joker ( )

- Misprint ( )

- Mystic Summit ( )

- Onyx Agate ()

- Popcorn ( <br> )

- Raised Fist ()

- Red Card (This Joker gains when any [[Booster Packs|]] is skipped <br> }} )

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} )

- Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

- Smiley Face ()

- Spare Trousers (This Joker gains if played hand contains a [[Poker Hands|]] <br> }} )

- Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} )

- Wrathful Joker ()

- Zany Joker ( )
 Jokers Acrobat ( )

- Ancient Joker (Each played card with [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored, <br> <small>suit changes at end of round</small> )

- Baron ()

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] )

- Blackboard ( )

- Bloodstone ( )

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} )

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Card Sharp ( )

- Cavendish ( <br> )

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} )

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver')

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, )

- Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] )

- Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. )

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} )

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} )

- Loyalty Card ( every hands played<br> )

- Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

- Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} )

- Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} )

- Photograph ()

- Ramen (, )

- Seeing Double ( if played hand has a scoring card and a scoring card of any other suit Play a hand that contains <abbr title="Other suits that count as clubs (e.g. wild suits) with rank 7 will also count."></abbr> )

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} )

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, )

- The Order ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Tribe ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- Throwback ( for each [[Blinds|]] skipped this run <br> }} )

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} )

- Yorick (This Joker gains every cards discarded<br>}} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )
Additive Mult Jokers Scholar ()

- Walkie Talkie ()
 Business Card ()

- Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Faceless Joker ()

- Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], )

- Matador ()

- Midas Mask (All played cards become [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Reserved Parking ()

- Rocket (Earn at end of round. Payout increases by when [[Blinds|]] is defeated Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Rough Gem ()

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], )

- To the Moon (Earn an extra of for every you have at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Trading Card (If of round has only card, )
 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

- Astronomer (All cards and in the shop are Discover every card Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] )

- Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . )

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, )

- Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. )

- Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. )

- Certificate ()

- Chaos the Clown ( free per shop Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chicot (Disables effect of every [[Blinds|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Diet Cola (Sell this card to create a free [[Tags|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- DNA (If of round has only card, )

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Dusk ()

- Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

- Hallucination ( chance to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when any [[Booster Packs|]] is opened <br> Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hanging Chad ()

- Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Luchador (Sell this card to disable the current [[Blinds|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Marble Joker (Adds one [[Stone Cards|]] card to the deck when [[Blinds|]] )

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Mime ()

- Mr. Bones (Prevents Death if chips scored are at least of required chips <br> Lose runs Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Mr. )

- Oops! All 6s (Doubles all [[listed probabilities| ]] <br> -> )}} In one hand, earn at least chips Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Oops!)

- Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Riff-Raff (When [[Blind|]] is selected, create [[Common Jokers| ]] <br> )

- Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> )

- Seltzer ()

- Shortcut (Allows to be made with gaps of <br> )}} Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Smeared Joker ( and count as the same suit, and count as the same suit Have at least [[Wild Cards|]] in your deck Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sock and Buskin ()

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Superposition (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card if poker hand contains an and a <br> )

- Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Vagabond (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Certificate?oldid=24749"

- Uncommon Jokers

- Effect Jokers

- Copyable Jokers

- Can Be Perishable

- Can Be Eternal

- Activates Passively Jokers

- Unlockable Jokers

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Jokers by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-