# Half Joker

Copyable Perishable Eternal

Half Joker is a Common Joker. It is a conditional Additive Mult Joker that adds +20 Mult to played hands containing 3 or fewer cards. Note that this does not take into account whether the excess cards are scored.

## Synergies

This Joker is very good in the earliest of Antes, with most Pairs and Three of a Kinds able to clear the first one on their own, and is one of the strongest flat Additive Mult Jokers in the game. However, due to the weak base power of the hands it enables, it is usually best replaced by other Additive Mult Jokers in later Antes.

### Decks

- Blue Deck ( hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] ): This Joker works best when repeatedly playing the hands it enables. Therefore, this Deck provides natural synergy, since the small size of all three valid poker hands warrant fewer discards to consistently find and score them.

- Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ): Since this Deck emphasizes the quick scaling of a single poker hand, it can greatly balloon the power of Half Joker, which already rewards the player for playing the same few hands, with its built-in Telescope Voucher guaranteeing that each Celestial Pack gives a much needed Pluto (Increases hand value by and Available from start. ), Mercury (Increases hand value by and Available from start. ), or Venus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. ), as the three hands this Joker empowers are very weak at base. However, the -1 consumable slot malus can prevent the player from capitalizing on strong consumables like The Chariot (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. ) Tarot Card, or, if somehow generated by Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> ) or Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ) in the same run, the Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ), Ouija (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Ranks|]]<br> hand size Available from start. ), and Trance (Add a [[Blue Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ) Spectral Cards.

- Ghost Deck ( [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear in the shop, start with a card Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ): The aforementioned Spectral Cards ( Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ), Ouija (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Ranks|]]<br> hand size Available from start. ), and Trance (Add a [[Blue Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )) all become more accessible by becoming potential Shop presences. Moreover, the starting Hex (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers Available from start. ) card can also give Half Joker a noteworthy X1.5 Mult bonus, making it much more feasible to hold later into the run.

### Poker Hands

Half Joker only synergizes with hands that can be formed with three or fewer cards:

- High Card

- Pair

- Three of a Kind

### Jokers

Half Joker uniquely encourages the user to go big with small hands. As a result, many of the Jokers it synergizes with will ideally play into this trait:

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} ): Giving +2 Chips to all hands played for each card remaining in your Deck, this one is ideal in the early-to-mid-game for empowering the hands this Joker already enables, as their low card count and lessened dependency on discards means its power is not dampened as much as it is by the 5-card hands.

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ): The high amount of + Mult can allow the player to play using whatever they draw in their opening hand since they can play three cards that do not form a hand, rather than just discarding them to cycle for new cards.

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} ) and Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] ): These Additive Mult Jokers will give even more score for playing repeated hands, which is something this Joker already encourages. Their downsides (-Mult on discard, reset when playing Face Card and single-hand focus, respectively) matter very little, as discards are less crucial, and only a small number of hands benefit in the first place.

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) ), Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ), and Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ): All three of these provide passive bonuses to hand size, allowing for easier assembly of Three of a Kinds, and most importantly, more opportunity to trigger 'held in hand' abilities, which scale particularly well with this Joker.

- Raised Fist (), Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. ), and Baron (): These Jokers provide Mult bonuses based on the cards held in your hand (singular variable + Mult, multiple flat + Mult, and multiple flat XMult, respectively), which meshes very well with the need to play fewer cards.

- Reserved Parking (): By repeatedly scoring numbered cards and Aces in small hands, while keeping face cards in hand, a large amount of money can potentially be earned.

- Sly Joker ( ) and Wily Joker ( ): These both provide a flat number of Chips for hands containing a Pair or a Three of a Kind, respectively. Since Three of a Kind also contains a Pair, it can benefit from both of these Jokers simultaneously to reap a near-universal +150 Chips.

- Card Sharp ( ): A flat Multiplicative Mult Joker that gives X3 Mult if the played poker hand has been played previously in the round. Since all of the hands this Joker enables are easy to score, this suave fellow is nearly guaranteed to give his impressive bonus on all subsequently played hands.

- Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ): A unique utility Joker that gives a technical hand size bonus by adding a playing card with a random Seal to the hand at the start of a round. This allows for even greater scaling of the hands this card enables. It also works particularly well with the aforementioned Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} ).

- Mime (): Allowing all 'held in hand' abilities to trigger an additional time, it gives a huge boost to the power ceiling of this Joker by allowing additional scoring from Steel Cards ( ) and 'held in hand' Mult Jokers, money generation from Reserved Parking () and Gold Cards ( ), and Planet Card generation from Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ).

- Ramen (, ): Similarly to Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), this card is essentially a free X2 Mult boost for a Half Joker build, as discards are less necessary in the first place.

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] ) and Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. ): These both allow for easy poker hand level scaling, as they can easily be assembled and thus repeatedly played or discarded, respectively.

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} ): Since this Joker already benefits greatly from a large number of Steel Cards ( ) due to the lesser number of played cards, the bonus it gives just by adding Steel Cards ( ) to the build makes it a natural choice.

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. ): One of the strongest Chip Jokers in the game, providing an astounding +250 Chips to all played hands, at the cost of a passive -2 hand size penalty. While its drawback detracts from one of this Joker's primary strengths - holding onto more cards to activate 'held in hand' abilities - oftentimes the sheer power it provides will be more than enough to compensate.

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . ) and/or The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . ): These are the strongest Multiplicative Mult Jokers to pair with this one, as only High Card is excluded from their effects (which is only sub-optimal in the Endless Antes). Much like the hand-specific Chip Jokers, Three of a Kinds can benefit from both simultaneously to pump out a staggering X6 Mult.

The following Jokers could potentially have synergy with this Joker, but have noticeable downsides:

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) ): This Joker allows all played cards to count in scoring. When using this Joker, High Card and Pair can be used as makeshift discards while utilizing otherwise non-scoring cards that could have a nice Card Modifier to help with scoring, or another trait to mesh with unique Joker synergy. However, Three of a Kind is completely incapable of benefiting if Half Joker is being emphasized, and in the event that it is the focused hand, Splash would do nothing (like depicted in most other media).

- Marble Joker (Adds one [[Stone Cards|]] card to the deck when [[Blinds|]] ): Adding a Stone Card (<br>) to the Deck at the start of a round can sound enticing, and is especially so if the hands being scaled are High Card or Pair due to allowing more cards to be scored than usual, but the shot of Chips they provide usually is not enough to outweigh the large amassment of Jokers that provide score based on rank or suit - Stones lack both of these. On top of that, more cards in the deck means less of a chance of finding crucial Steel Cards ( ) or Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ). With a large number of Stones, Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} ) can form a very potent Chip engine with it, but one should carefully consider all their options before picking this up.

- Blackboard ( ): While its Multiplicative Mult bonus is impressive, it can be difficult to trigger by only scoring 3 cards at a time without suit fixing.

### Vouchers

- Grabber () and Nacho Tong (Permanently gain an additional hand per round Play a total of 2,) allow for the three poker hands Half Joker enables to be played more and more often and further increasing the power of cards like Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} ) and Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] ).

- Paint Brush ( ) and Palette ( hand size Reduce your hand size down to five cards. ) provide passive hand size bonuses without necessitating the consumption of a Joker slot, allowing for easier capitalization on 'held in hand' effects.

- Telescope ([[Booster Packs|]] always contain the [[Planet Cards|]] card for your most played [[Poker Hands|]] ) is a wonderful pickup in a build featuring this Joker, for the same reason that the Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) is a good choice.

### Boss Blinds

- This Joker is easily distinguishable when played against Amber Acorn ( ), as it retains its unique shape even when flipped face-down.

## Anti-Synergies

### Poker Hands

The following poker hands are formed of more than three cards, and thus gain no benefit from Half Joker:

- Two Pair

- Straight

- Flush

- Full House

- Four of a Kind

- Straight Flush

- Five of a Kind

- Flush House

- Flush Five

### Jokers

- Jokers oriented towards larger hands will contribute nothing to a Half Joker build. Some of the numerous examples include not being able to get its benefit while also scaling Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} ), and being unable to capitalize on The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . ), which is one of the strongest flat Multiplicative Mult Jokers in the game, and would otherwise be easy to pivot into from a Three of a Kind build.

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ): The +3 discards it provides are nice for most other builds, but for Half Joker builds, they are largely irrelevant for the reasons stated multiple times before. The -1 hand size penalty it provides can make it just hard enough to find Pairs and Three of a Kinds to be a severe detriment, as well as making Steel Cards ( ) and Blue Seals (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) harder to find (although it can be useful if the player also wants to play towards Banner ( ) or Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )).

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, ) also does not work well with Half Joker as the four suits are impossible to reach with 3 cards.

### Boss Blinds

There is 1 Boss Blind that counters Half Joker, and a few others that can provide a noticeable challenge but do not directly counter it:

- The Psychic ( ): Hands with less than 5 played cards will not score at all. Unless the player has scaled their build well enough, this is a definite run-ender for a Half Joker build.

- The Eye ( ): Hands that have been played previously this Blind will not score at all. Half Joker only empowers 3 of the 12 hands in the game, so once these options are exhausted, it will not assist in scoring whatsoever. This can potentially cause a guaranteed run loss, but is less detrimental when encountered earlier.

- The Ox ( ): Playing the poker hand that was the most played at the start of the same Ante will set the player's money to $0. This Joker struggles with it especially, as it encourages focusing on a small number of hands. Since the Jokers and Card Modifiers Half Joker bounces off of best are hard to come by consistently, this Boss Blind can potentially cause irreversible damage to the run by making them virtually inaccessible.

- The Wall ( ) and Violet Vessel ( ): With their doubled and tripled Boss Blind size, respectively, they prove an extreme challenge to a Half Joker build without extreme amounts of scaling, as all three hands it enables have very low base Chips and Mult.

## Trivia

- This Joker is part of a set that doesn't adhere to the standard joker size, along with Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} ), Photograph (), and Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Internal | j_half |
| Chinese (Simplified) | 半张小丑 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 半個小丑 |
| Dutch | Halve Joker |
| French | Demi-joker |
| German | Halber Joker |
| Indonesian | Half Joker |
| Italian | Mezzo Jolly |
| Japanese | ハーフジョーカー |
| Korean | 반쪽 조커 |
| Polish | Pół-Joker |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Meio Curinga |
| Russian | Полуджокер |
| Spanish (Spain) | Medio comodín |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Medio comodín |

 d • eRS3 Jokers in Balatro Arrowhead ()

- Banner ( )

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} )

- Bull ( for each you have <br> }} )

- Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} )

- Clever Joker ( )

- Crafty Joker ( )

- Devious Joker ( )

- Hiker ()

- Ice Cream (<br> )

- Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Runner (Gains if played hand contains a <br> }} )

- Scary Face ()

- Sly Joker ( )

- Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} )

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. )

- Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

- Wily Joker ( )
 Jokers Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} )

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. )

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} )

- Crazy Joker ( )

- Droll Joker ( )

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} )

- Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

- Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} )

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} )

- Gluttonous Joker ()

- Greedy Joker ()

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} )

- Gros Michel (<br> )

- Half Joker ()

- Joker ( )

- Jolly Joker ( )

- Lusty Joker ()

- Mad Joker ( )

- Misprint ( )

- Mystic Summit ( )

- Onyx Agate ()

- Popcorn ( <br> )

- Raised Fist ()

- Red Card (This Joker gains when any [[Booster Packs|]] is skipped <br> }} )

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} )

- Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

- Smiley Face ()

- Spare Trousers (This Joker gains if played hand contains a [[Poker Hands|]] <br> }} )

- Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} )

- Wrathful Joker ()

- Zany Joker ( )
 Jokers Acrobat ( )

- Ancient Joker (Each played card with [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored, <br> <small>suit changes at end of round</small> )

- Baron ()

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] )

- Blackboard ( )

- Bloodstone ( )

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} )

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Card Sharp ( )

- Cavendish ( <br> )

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} )

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver')

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, )

- Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] )

- Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. )

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} )

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} )

- Loyalty Card ( every hands played<br> )

- Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

- Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} )

- Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} )

- Photograph ()

- Ramen (, )

- Seeing Double ( if played hand has a scoring card and a scoring card of any other suit Play a hand that contains <abbr title="Other suits that count as clubs (e.g. wild suits) with rank 7 will also count."></abbr> )

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} )

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, )

- The Order ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Tribe ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- Throwback ( for each [[Blinds|]] skipped this run <br> }} )

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} )

- Yorick (This Joker gains every cards discarded<br>}} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )
Additive Mult Jokers Scholar ()

- Walkie Talkie ()
 Business Card ()

- Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Faceless Joker ()

- Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], )

- Matador ()

- Midas Mask (All played cards become [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Reserved Parking ()

- Rocket (Earn at end of round. Payout increases by when [[Blinds|]] is defeated Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Rough Gem ()

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], )

- To the Moon (Earn an extra of for every you have at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Trading Card (If of round has only card, )
 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

- Astronomer (All cards and in the shop are Discover every card Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] )

- Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . )

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, )

- Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. )

- Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. )

- Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chaos the Clown ( free per shop Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chicot (Disables effect of every [[Blinds|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Diet Cola (Sell this card to create a free [[Tags|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- DNA (If of round has only card, )

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Dusk ()

- Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

- Hallucination ( chance to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when any [[Booster Packs|]] is opened <br> Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hanging Chad ()

- Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Luchador (Sell this card to disable the current [[Blinds|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Marble Joker (Adds one [[Stone Cards|]] card to the deck when [[Blinds|]] )

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Mime ()

- Mr. Bones (Prevents Death if chips scored are at least of required chips <br> Lose runs Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Mr. )

- Oops! All 6s (Doubles all [[listed probabilities| ]] <br> -> )}} In one hand, earn at least chips Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Oops!)

- Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Riff-Raff (When [[Blind|]] is selected, create [[Common Jokers| ]] <br> )

- Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> )

- Seltzer ()

- Shortcut (Allows to be made with gaps of <br> )}} Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Smeared Joker ( and count as the same suit, and count as the same suit Have at least [[Wild Cards|]] in your deck Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sock and Buskin ()

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Superposition (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card if poker hand contains an and a <br> )

- Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Vagabond (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Half_Joker?oldid=24462"

- Common Jokers

- Additive Mult Jokers

- Copyable Jokers

- Can Be Perishable

- Can Be Eternal

- Activates Independently Jokers

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Jokers by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-