# Marble Joker

is selected Copyable Perishable Eternal
Marble Joker is an Uncommon Effect Joker that adds a Stone Card (<br>) to the deck at the beginning of each Blind.

Unlike Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ), cards given by Marble Joker will be added to the deck instead of directly to the hand, and they need to be drawn like other cards in deck to be played.

## Usage Notes

- When playing against Verdant Leaf ( ), the Stone Card generated by Marble Joker will not be debuffed.

- The Fragile ( 2x Eternal, Negative Standard 52-card deck, all glassAll methods of adding non-glass cards or removing glass enhancements are banned:
*[[Jokers]]: , , and 
*[[Tarot Cards]]: , , , , , , and 
*[[Spectral Cards]]: , , and 
*[[Vouchers]]: and 
*[[Booster Packs]]: Standard Pack
*[[Tags]]: ) challenge bans Marble Joker.

- The Medusa ( Eternal 52 cards, with all face cards replaced by Stone cards) challenge starts the player with an Eternal copy of () Marble Joker.

- The Monolith ( Eternal <br>Eternal Negative ) challenge starts the player with an Eternal, Negative copy of () Marble Joker.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Plasma Deck ( Balance [[Chips|]] and [[Mult|]] when calculating score for played hand <br> base Blind size Win a run with any [[Decks|deck]] ) can use the Stone Cards (<br>) created to great effect. Marble's Stone cards could win the entire run in combination with only a few other Chip Jokers and/or Planet cards.

- Abandoned Deck ( Start run with no [[Card Ranks#Face cards|]] in your deck Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) and Mad World ( Extra no longer earn money<br>Earn no at end of round Eternal, Negative <br>Eternal Ranks 2 through 9 only, 32 cards totalBanned Blinds: ) have fewer cards than other decks, meaning the player will be able to draw a mixture of Stone and non-Stone cards more consistently.

- Red Deck ( ) allows you to find Stone cards easier, letting the player play more hands with as many Stone cards as possible.

- Blue Deck ( hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] )'s extra hand allows the player to play more Stone card hands and scale hand-based mult-scaling Jokers.

- Black Deck ( Joker slot <br> hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] )'s extra Joker slot makes it easier to take Marble, as there will be more Jokers to carry it as it starts to create Stone cards.

### Poker Hands

High Card is the best hand to use with Stone Cards, as you can end up playing five of them. Besides that, Pair and Three of a Kind still allow you to play a few Stone cards, and Two Pair and Four of a Kind allow you to play one. Straight, Flush, and Straight Flush can also be played with one stone card with Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ). No other hand can be played with Stone cards. You will want to end up focusing on High Card, as it is the most reliable and plays the most Stone cards.

### Jokers

- Marble Joker will only work with some way to scale Mult. This can be scaling based on hands played, like from Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} ) or Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] ), scaling from leveling up High Card, like from Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. ) or Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] ), or even scaling from economy, like from Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. ) or Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} ), but it must exist in some form. There aren't many flat + Mult Jokers that will be able to beat the final Boss Blind. This doesn't need to be from a Joker necessarily, getting enough Pluto (Increases hand value by and Available from start. ) cards from Celestial Packs, blue seals, etc. can act as this scaling, but Joker scaling is easier to pull off generally.

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} ) possesses a very strong combo with Marble Joker. The worst part about Marble is that after the fifth Stone Card (<br>) it adds, you have maxed out on the Chips from Stone cards you can play in a single hand, and every additional Stone just makes that hand easier to play (or lets you play it multiple times). Stone Joker adds consistent Chips scaling that will give Marble Joker value after it would begin to lose it. It can also serve as a late replacement for Marble, giving it value postmortem.

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver') will become active very quickly with Marble Joker adding an enhanced card every Blind.

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} ) is an extremely strong combo, as it will gain X0.25 Mult every Blind from the Stone Card added. It can very rapidly reach a huge XMult, which can affect whichever +Mult scaler you have to a large extent.

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ) can use Marble as an enhancement generator to scale easier. Builds using Vampire often don't care about the cards in its deck besides enhancements, either, meaning the added cards don't massively hinder it, only making it slightly harder to find other enhanced cards (which is, again, not too bad since you get one automatically every Blind).

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] ) and Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . ) can copy Marble Joker at the start of the blind, allowing players to create more Stone Cards and can be helpful to scale Jokers like Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} ) or Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} ).

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} ) can be useful due to the fact that every blind adds an extra card. Blue Jokers is better if Marble Joker is paired with Blueprint or Brainstorm because then it adds 2 card to the deck every blind.

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] ) works pretty well since Marble Joker itself and most of the Jokers that synergize with it are Uncommons.

## Anti-Synergies

### Poker Hands

- If Marble Joker is held for a long time or is Eternal (), higher value poker hands like Straight and Four of a Kind that rely on finding specific cards are much harder to find with many Stone Cards (<br>) in the deck.

### Jokers

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} ) relies on a small deck size, which is more difficult to get when 1 card is added per round from Marble Joker.

- Since the Stone Cards given by Marble Joker always score no matter what, Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) ) becomes unnecesary.

## Strategies

Generally, Marble Joker isn't a strong Joker. Stone Cards (<br>) only really work with High Card and Pair builds, and you need a large amount of them in your deck to consistently draw and play them. Marble Joker ends up in an awkward state early where it takes up a Joker slot that could be used for another Chips provider like Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. ) or Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} ) that can work better with High Card builds. However, the Stone Cards it adds can end up supplanting a Chips Joker entirely, meaning you can sell Marble after getting value from it and go into the final Boss Blind with an extra Mult or effect Joker you'd be missing otherwise. With that said, Marble joker can be great when it's fueling some specific other jokers.

## Trivia

- Like many real-life marble statues, the art of Marble Joker is partially missing.

- If the Stone (<br>) enhancement is removed or replaced, it can be seen that the card created by Marble Joker has a random rank and suit. This doesn't impact the type of a played hand if Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ) removes it.

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Chinese (Simplified) | 大理石小丑 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 大理石小丑 |
| Dutch | Marmeren Joker |
| French | Joker de marbre |
| German | Marmor-Joker |
| Indonesian | Marble Joker |
| Italian | Jolly di marmo |
| Japanese | マーブルジョーカー |
| Korean | 마블 조커 |
| Polish | Marmurowy Joker |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Curinga de Mármore |
| Russian | Мраморный джокер |
| Spanish (Spain) | Comodín de mármol |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Comodín de mármol |

 d • eRS3 Jokers in Balatro Arrowhead ()

- Banner ( )

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} )

- Bull ( for each you have <br> }} )

- Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} )

- Clever Joker ( )

- Crafty Joker ( )

- Devious Joker ( )

- Hiker ()

- Ice Cream (<br> )

- Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Runner (Gains if played hand contains a <br> }} )

- Scary Face ()

- Sly Joker ( )

- Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} )

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. )

- Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

- Wily Joker ( )
 Jokers Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} )

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. )

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} )

- Crazy Joker ( )

- Droll Joker ( )

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} )

- Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

- Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} )

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} )

- Gluttonous Joker ()

- Greedy Joker ()

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} )

- Gros Michel (<br> )

- Half Joker ( )

- Joker ( )

- Jolly Joker ( )

- Lusty Joker ()

- Mad Joker ( )

- Misprint ( )

- Mystic Summit ( )

- Onyx Agate ()

- Popcorn ( <br> )

- Raised Fist ()

- Red Card (This Joker gains when any [[Booster Packs|]] is skipped <br> }} )

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} )

- Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

- Smiley Face ()

- Spare Trousers (This Joker gains if played hand contains a [[Poker Hands|]] <br> }} )

- Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} )

- Wrathful Joker ()

- Zany Joker ( )
 Jokers Acrobat ( )

- Ancient Joker (Each played card with [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored, <br> <small>suit changes at end of round</small> )

- Baron ()

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] )

- Blackboard ( )

- Bloodstone ( )

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} )

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Card Sharp ( )

- Cavendish ( <br> )

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} )

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver')

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, )

- Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] )

- Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. )

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} )

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} )

- Loyalty Card ( every hands played<br> )

- Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

- Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} )

- Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} )

- Photograph ()

- Ramen (, )

- Seeing Double ( if played hand has a scoring card and a scoring card of any other suit Play a hand that contains <abbr title="Other suits that count as clubs (e.g. wild suits) with rank 7 will also count."></abbr> )

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} )

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, )

- The Order ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Tribe ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- Throwback ( for each [[Blinds|]] skipped this run <br> }} )

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} )

- Yorick (This Joker gains every cards discarded<br>}} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )
Additive Mult Jokers Scholar ()

- Walkie Talkie ()
 Business Card ()

- Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Faceless Joker ()

- Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], )

- Matador ()

- Midas Mask (All played cards become [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Reserved Parking ()

- Rocket (Earn at end of round. Payout increases by when [[Blinds|]] is defeated Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Rough Gem ()

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], )

- To the Moon (Earn an extra of for every you have at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Trading Card (If of round has only card, )
 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

- Astronomer (All cards and in the shop are Discover every card Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] )

- Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . )

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, )

- Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. )

- Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. )

- Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chaos the Clown ( free per shop Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chicot (Disables effect of every [[Blinds|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Diet Cola (Sell this card to create a free [[Tags|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- DNA (If of round has only card, )

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Dusk ()

- Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

- Hallucination ( chance to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when any [[Booster Packs|]] is opened <br> Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hanging Chad ()

- Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Luchador (Sell this card to disable the current [[Blinds|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Marble Joker ()

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Mime ()

- Mr. Bones (Prevents Death if chips scored are at least of required chips <br> Lose runs Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Mr. )

- Oops! All 6s (Doubles all [[listed probabilities| ]] <br> -> )}} In one hand, earn at least chips Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Oops!)

- Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Riff-Raff (When [[Blind|]] is selected, create [[Common Jokers| ]] <br> )

- Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> )

- Seltzer ()

- Shortcut (Allows to be made with gaps of <br> )}} Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Smeared Joker ( and count as the same suit, and count as the same suit Have at least [[Wild Cards|]] in your deck Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sock and Buskin ()

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Superposition (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card if poker hand contains an and a <br> )

- Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Vagabond (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Marble_Joker?oldid=24691"

- Uncommon Jokers

- Effect Jokers

- Copyable Jokers

- Can Be Perishable

- Can Be Eternal

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Jokers by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-