# Riff-Raff

Jokers
 (Must have room) Copyable Perishable Eternal

Riff-Raff is a Common Effect Joker that generates up to two more Common Jokers whenever a Blind is selected, as long as there is space in the player's Joker slots. If the player has no room, Riff-Raff will not generate anything (except in certain scenarios as seen in the interactions section).

## Usage Notes

Notable interactions with other Jokers/game mechanics include:

- Jokers generated by Riff-Raff can potentially come with Editions, including Negative ( Joker or Consumable slot Edition Joker (Negative).png).

- When playing on higher Stakes, Riff-Raff will not create Jokers with in-run Stickers, such as the Rental () sticker.

 - Jokers generated during the Non-Perishable ( All Jokers are Eternal Banned Jokers: , ; , , ; ; , , and <br>Banned [[Blinds]]: ) will still receive an Eternal () sticker.

- Riff-Raff is able to spawn Cavendish ( <br> ) as long as Gros Michel (<br> ) went extinct (destroyed itself) earlier in the run.

- Riff-Raff can create Jokers that are undiscovered in the player's collection.

- When the player possesses Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ), Riff-Raff can create a second Riff-Raff.

- If all Joker slots are currently filled when the Blind is selected, and then Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} ) consumes a Joker, Riff-Raff will create another Joker, as long as it's on the right of Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} ).

- If all Joker slots are currently filled when the Blind is selected, and either Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} ) or Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} ) destroys a Negative ( Joker or Consumable slot Edition Joker (Negative).png) Joker, Riff-Raff will be able to create a non-Negative Joker. This is similar to selling a Negative ( Joker or Consumable slot Edition Joker (Negative).png) Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) ), which leads to a -1 Joker Slot situation.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Black Deck ( Joker slot <br> hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] ) works well with Riff-Raff, as it gives an additional Joker slot at the cost of losing a hand.

- Similarly, Five-Card Draw ( discards per round<br> hand size<br> Joker slots <br>Banned Jokers: , , ) works even better with Riff-Raff, as it gives two additional Joker slots at the cost of only having a hand size of 5.

- On a Knife's Edge ( Eternal, Pinned <br>The Pinned Joker is always in the leftmost position) starts with an Eternal, Pinned Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} ), which means Riff-Raff can provide disposable Jokers to feed the Dagger. Make sure to keep a disposable Joker in between them so Riff-Raff can be kept after selecting a blind.

### Poker Hands

Since Riff-Raff is a utility Joker, it does not have specific synergy with any hand.

### Jokers

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} ): By providing free fodder to feed it, this Joker can scale its +Mult much more reliably.

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} ): Similarly, having free Jokers to sell allows Campfire to scale easily.

- Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} ): Riff-Raff ensures the player's Joker slots are filled, so it makes it easy to get +Mult for Abstract Joker.

- Gros Michel (<br> ): If the player is lucky enough to get this Joker from Riff-Raff, it can be a good way to get the powerful Cavendish ( <br> ) later.

- Due to the random nature of Riff-Raff, it has the potential to either have great or poor synergy with the player's other Jokers depending on what Common Jokers it provides.

### Vouchers

- Purchasing Blank ( ) and then Antimatter ( ) gives the player an additional Joker slot, which could be beneficial for Riff-Raff.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Painted Deck ( hand size, <br> Joker slot Win a run with any [[Decks|deck]] ) reduces Joker slots by one, making it harder to have extra space for Riff-Raff to spawn Jokers.

- Similarly, Cruelty ( give no reward money<br> give no reward money<br><br> Joker Slots ) reduces Joker slots by two, making it even harder to have extra space for Riff-Raff to spawn Jokers.

- Non-Perishable ( All Jokers are Eternal Banned Jokers: , ; , , ; ; , , and <br>Banned [[Blinds]]: ) makes it very risky to use Riff-Raff, as it spawns Eternal () Common Jokers on this deck.

### Jokers

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} ): Since Riff-Raff constantly adds Jokers, it reduces the XMult it can get.

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} ): Common Jokers generally don't have a high selling value, so they will add less +Mult to Swashbuckler.

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] ): This Joker only scales its XMult from owning Uncommon Jokers, meaning the Jokers provided by Riff-Raff are useless to it.

## Trivia

- The word riff-raff (sometimes spelled as riffraff) has the meaning of "people with a bad reputation or of the common class", which is fitting in how Riff-Raff only creates Common Jokers.

- The exact depiction of the Joker/Jimbo on the card art of this joker can also be found on the top right corner of the Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] ), while a slightly different version is in the center of Seltzer ().

- Riff-Raff will always say "+1 Joker" even if it generates 2 Jokers. This seems to be a visual bug.

## Update History

This information has been manually compiled. Some updates may not be included yet.
1.0.1f

- Price

 - $4 -> $6

## In other languages

| Language | Name | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| Internal | j_riff_raff | |
| Chinese (Simplified) | 乌合之众 | |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 即興演出 | Literally "riff" (to improvise) |
| Dutch | Gespuis | |
| French | Racaille | |
| German | Gesindel | |
| Indonesian | Riff-Raff | |
| Italian | Marmaglia | |
| Japanese | リフ・ラフ | |
| Korean | 쓰레기 | |
| Polish | Motłoch | |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Ralé | |
| Russian | Рифф-рафф | The name for this Joker was transliterated. Appropriate translations for this term would be "сброд" (sbrod) or "быдло" (bydlo). |
| Spanish (Spain) | Gentuza | |
| Spanish (Latin America) | La chusma | |

 d • eRS3 Jokers in Balatro Arrowhead ()

- Banner ( )

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} )

- Bull ( for each you have <br> }} )

- Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} )

- Clever Joker ( )

- Crafty Joker ( )

- Devious Joker ( )

- Hiker ()

- Ice Cream (<br> )

- Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Runner (Gains if played hand contains a <br> }} )

- Scary Face ()

- Sly Joker ( )

- Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} )

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. )

- Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

- Wily Joker ( )
 Jokers Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} )

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. )

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} )

- Crazy Joker ( )

- Droll Joker ( )

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} )

- Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

- Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} )

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} )

- Gluttonous Joker ()

- Greedy Joker ()

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} )

- Gros Michel (<br> )

- Half Joker ( )

- Joker ( )

- Jolly Joker ( )

- Lusty Joker ()

- Mad Joker ( )

- Misprint ( )

- Mystic Summit ( )

- Onyx Agate ()

- Popcorn ( <br> )

- Raised Fist ()

- Red Card (This Joker gains when any [[Booster Packs|]] is skipped <br> }} )

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} )

- Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

- Smiley Face ()

- Spare Trousers (This Joker gains if played hand contains a [[Poker Hands|]] <br> }} )

- Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} )

- Wrathful Joker ()

- Zany Joker ( )
 Jokers Acrobat ( )

- Ancient Joker (Each played card with [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored, <br> <small>suit changes at end of round</small> )

- Baron ()

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] )

- Blackboard ( )

- Bloodstone ( )

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} )

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Card Sharp ( )

- Cavendish ( <br> )

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} )

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver')

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, )

- Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] )

- Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. )

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} )

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} )

- Loyalty Card ( every hands played<br> )

- Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

- Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} )

- Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} )

- Photograph ()

- Ramen (, )

- Seeing Double ( if played hand has a scoring card and a scoring card of any other suit Play a hand that contains <abbr title="Other suits that count as clubs (e.g. wild suits) with rank 7 will also count."></abbr> )

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} )

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, )

- The Order ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Tribe ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- Throwback ( for each [[Blinds|]] skipped this run <br> }} )

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} )

- Yorick (This Joker gains every cards discarded<br>}} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )
Additive Mult Jokers Scholar ()

- Walkie Talkie ()
 Business Card ()

- Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Faceless Joker ()

- Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], )

- Matador ()

- Midas Mask (All played cards become [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Reserved Parking ()

- Rocket (Earn at end of round. Payout increases by when [[Blinds|]] is defeated Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Rough Gem ()

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], )

- To the Moon (Earn an extra of for every you have at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Trading Card (If of round has only card, )
 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

- Astronomer (All cards and in the shop are Discover every card Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] )

- Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . )

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, )

- Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. )

- Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. )

- Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chaos the Clown ( free per shop Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chicot (Disables effect of every [[Blinds|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Diet Cola (Sell this card to create a free [[Tags|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- DNA (If of round has only card, )

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Dusk ()

- Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

- Hallucination ( chance to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when any [[Booster Packs|]] is opened <br> Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hanging Chad ()

- Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Luchador (Sell this card to disable the current [[Blinds|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Marble Joker (Adds one [[Stone Cards|]] card to the deck when [[Blinds|]] )

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Mime ()

- Mr. Bones (Prevents Death if chips scored are at least of required chips <br> Lose runs Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Mr. )

- Oops! All 6s (Doubles all [[listed probabilities| ]] <br> -> )}} In one hand, earn at least chips Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Oops!)

- Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Riff-Raff ()

- Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> )

- Seltzer ()

- Shortcut (Allows to be made with gaps of <br> )}} Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Smeared Joker ( and count as the same suit, and count as the same suit Have at least [[Wild Cards|]] in your deck Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sock and Buskin ()

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Superposition (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card if poker hand contains an and a <br> )

- Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Vagabond (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Riff-Raff?oldid=24099"

- Common Jokers

- Effect Jokers

- Copyable Jokers

- Can Be Perishable

- Can Be Eternal

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Jokers by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-