# Vagabond

or less Copyable Perishable Eternal

Vagabond is a Rare Effect Joker that spawns a Tarot card when a hand is played, provided players have a free consumable slot and $4 or less when the hand is played.

Money generation like the 1/15 $20 payout from Lucky Cards ( chance for <br> ), Gold Seal () on scoring cards, or money generated by Jokers such as Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] ) or Business Card () that take the player over $4 upon playing will still generate the Tarot card along with their additional money effect.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Green Deck ( At end of each Round: <br> per remaining <br> per remaining <br> Earn no Discover at least items from your [[collection]] ) isn't reliant on Interest to gain money, so spending everything you have to trigger Vagabond won't impact your ability to buy from the Shop as much. However, much of Green Deck's income is from leftover hands, which you won't have if you are using them all to trigger Vagabond.

- Blue Deck ( hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] ) allows more hands to be played, meaning more triggers of Vagabond.

- Magic Deck ( Start run with the voucher and copies of Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] )'s extra consumable slot is very helpful for saving useful Tarots.

- Zodiac Deck ( Start run with , , and Win a run with any [[Decks|deck]] )'s unique shop makes it easier to spend money to reach the $4 threshold and generally helps the Tarot-stacking builds Vagabond tends to form.

- Luxury Tax ( Hold cards in hand for every you have<br><br> hand size ) encourages the player to not have too much money, similar to Vagabond.

### Poker Hands

- Weaker hands like High Card, Pair, Two Pair, etc. allow players to farm more Tarot Cards per round.

- Later in the game, Vagabond can enable hands built around one card, such as Four of a Kind and Five of a Kind.

### Jokers

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) allows you to go up to $-20 in debt which greatly enables staying below $4 to generate Tarot cards.

- Jokers that scale based on hands played, like Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} ), Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), and, occasionally, Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} ), are helpful to pair with Vagabond, as they grow more powerful in the process of using Vagabond to its full potential.

 - Furthering this idea, Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, ) allows more hands to be played to both generate more Tarots and scale these Jokers.

- Jokers that want large quantities of Tarot cards used very much appreciate Vagabond. These include:

 - Enhancement-based Jokers like Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} ), Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] ), and Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

 - Suit-based Jokers like Bloodstone ( ), Onyx Agate () and Greedy Joker ()

 - Rank-based Jokers like Walkie Talkie (), Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} ) and Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

 - Tarot cards are useful for many things, so many Jokers can benefit from the Tarots Vagabond generates.

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} ) is a useful scaling Joker Vagabond can pair with. It will end up scaling faster than Jokers like Green Joker, too, as the Tarots used in shops still scale it.

- Acrobat ( ) is very helpful, as it provides a safety net for the final hand of the round. This final hand will, ideally, always be reached, as using every hand to maximize Tarot production is the main goal of Vagabond.

- One does not usually need to discard with Vagabond, so Jokers that want to save discards, like Ramen (, ), Banner ( ), and Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) can be useful additions to builds using Vagabond.

- Money generation that triggers after the round, like Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) and Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) ), is very helpful, as it allows you to still utilize shops without needing bonus money from hands or interest.

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) and Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) ) can increase your Joker sell value, which pairs well with Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. ), allowing you to get money after the Blind ends.

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver') and Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ) are the one of the best jokers for converting all of the enhanced cards that Vagabond has made into a powerful endgame strategy.

- The best joker that synergies best with Vagabond is Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} ), which is guaranteed to scale by X0.25 Mult per hand played.

 - However, it is important to note that you try not go over the $4 maximum for the Vagabond trigger when selling cards during a Blind.

### Vouchers

- Grabber () and Nacho Tong (Permanently gain an additional hand per round Play a total of 2,) both add 1 extra hand, allowing Vagabond to generate more Tarot Cards.

- Crystal Ball ( ) gives you an additional +1 consumable slot, which is helpful since you may want to save some Tarot cards from Vagabond instead of using them immediately.

 - This applies notably to Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. ), since you want to collect the money after the Blind is over.

### Consumables

- Wraith (Creates a random [[Rare Jokers| ]], sets money to Available from start. ) can be helpful as it sets money to $0, allowing Vagabond to activate.

### Blinds

- The Tooth ( ) and The Ox ( ) are blinds that synergize with Vagabond by bringing the player's money down into the range that Vagabond can activate.

### Stakes

- On Gold Stake, any Rental () Jokers may help the player maintain Vagabond's conditional requirement.

### Other synergies

- Be careful when using Lucky Cards ( chance for <br> ) with Vagabond, as winning $20 from it will prevent Vagabond from generating any more Tarot cards for future hands during the current blind.

- Using The Devil (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. ) to create Gold Cards ( ) can be beneficial since the $3 you gain from it happens just before the Blind ends.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Black Deck ( Joker slot <br> hand every round Discover at least items from your [[collection]] ), Blast Off ( hands per round<br> discards per round<br> Joker Slots Eternal <br>Eternal <br><br>Banned [[Vouchers]]: , <br>Banned Jokers: ), and Golden Needle ( Discards each cost <br><br> hands per round<br> discards per round<br>Start with Banned Jokers: <br>Banned [[Vouchers]]: , ) don't work well with Vagabond due to their reduced number of hands.

- Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] )'s fewer consumable slots make it significantly harder to use the Tarots from Vagabond.

- Rich get Richer ( cannot exceed the current <br><br>Start with <br>) doesn't work well with Vagabond, as this deck encourages the player to have a lot of money.

### Jokers

- Jokers which generate money in the middle of a round, as opposed to the end, can very quickly pass Vagabond's shutoff point.

 - Rough Gem () works particularly poorly with Vagabond, as one  Diamond Flush can immediately hit its limit.

 - Also in this category are To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], ) (if triggered more than once), Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], ), Faceless Joker (), Business Card () (if playing more than two Face Cards), Reserved Parking () (if more than four Face Cards are held in hand) and Matador ().

 - Trading Card (If of round has only card, )'s $3 does not go over the limit on its own, but it does require the player make sure they have no more than one dollar before each Blind.

 - Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] ) changes how Gold Cards work, providing $4 on play instead of $3 at end, which can quickly turn off Vagabond.

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. ) and Bull ( for each you have <br> }} ) grow stronger when the player has more money, which directly conflicts with Vagabond's low-money requirement.

- To The Moon () becomes harder to utilize if the player does not have any method to generate money at the end of the round like Gold Cards ( ).

### Seals

- Because Vagabond generates 1 Tarot card per hand played, Blue Seal (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ) becomes harder to use as players may not have enough consumable slots to hold both.

### Vouchers

- Seed Money () and Money Tree () encourage the player to have a lot of money to gain interest, which directly conflicts with Vagabond's low-money requirement.

## Trivia

- The card art for this Joker was made by Pixel Artist, Animator, and YouTuber Lumpy Touch. This was the only card in the game whose pixel art was not done by LocalThunk, until some of the Friends of Jimbo arrived.

 - The Joker resembles a clown character named Weary Willie, created by the late circus performer Emmett Leo Kelly.

 - Chaos Theory is an unused Joker with an unknown effect and rarity who's art was also made by Lumpy Touch.

- Vagabonds are wandering people who have no set home or job, often associated with being poor. This fits the design of the Joker, being a poor-looking man with worn clothes and the effect based on having low or no money.

 - The card's "material" also makes it look like it's made of cardboard, referencing how vagabonds sometimes live in cardboard boxes.

- The color of "Tarot" in Vagabond's description is incorrectly formatted as {C:purple} instead of {C:tarot}, which is only used correctly in Medium (Add a [[Purple Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ). This makes the text appear as a slightly darker purple than other cards that reference Tarot Cards.

 - Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} ) has the same issue.

## Update History

This information has been manually compiled. Some updates may not be included yet.
1.0.1f

- Effect

 - Applies when you have $3 or less -> applies when you have $4 or less

- Rarity

 - Uncommon -> Rare

- Price

 - $6 -> $8

Undocumented

- Effect

 - Applies when you have $4 or less -> applies when you have $3 or less

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Internal | j_vagabond |
| Chinese (Simplified) | 流浪者 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 流浪者 |
| Dutch | Vagebond |
| French | Vagabond |
| German | Vagabund |
| Indonesian | Vagabond |
| Italian | Vagabondo |
| Japanese | バガボンド |
| Korean | 방랑자 |
| Polish | Włóczęga |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Vagabundo |
| Russian | Бродяга |
| Spanish (Spain) | Vagabundo |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Vagabundo |

 d • eRS3 Jokers in Balatro Arrowhead ()

- Banner ( )

- Blue Joker ( for each remaining card in <br> }} )

- Bull ( for each you have <br> }} )

- Castle (This Joker gains per discarded [[Card Suits|]] card, suit changes every round <br> }} )

- Clever Joker ( )

- Crafty Joker ( )

- Devious Joker ( )

- Hiker ()

- Ice Cream (<br> )

- Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Runner (Gains if played hand contains a <br> }} )

- Scary Face ()

- Sly Joker ( )

- Square Joker (This Joker gains if played hand has exactly cards <br> }} )

- Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} )

- Stuntman (,<br> hand size Earn at least 100 million (100,000,000) Chips in a single hand. )

- Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

- Wily Joker ( )
 Jokers Abstract Joker ( for each [[Jokers|]] card<br>}} )

- Bootstraps ( for every you have <br> }} Have at least Jokers at the same time. )

- Ceremonial Dagger (When [[Blinds|]] is selected, destroy [[Jokers|Joker]] to the right and permanently add its sell value to this <br> }} )

- Crazy Joker ( )

- Droll Joker ( )

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} )

- Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

- Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

- Flash Card (This Joker gains per in [[The Shop|the shop]] <br> }} )

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} )

- Gluttonous Joker ()

- Greedy Joker ()

- Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} )

- Gros Michel (<br> )

- Half Joker ( )

- Joker ( )

- Jolly Joker ( )

- Lusty Joker ()

- Mad Joker ( )

- Misprint ( )

- Mystic Summit ( )

- Onyx Agate ()

- Popcorn ( <br> )

- Raised Fist ()

- Red Card (This Joker gains when any [[Booster Packs|]] is skipped <br> }} )

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} )

- Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. )

- Smiley Face ()

- Spare Trousers (This Joker gains if played hand contains a [[Poker Hands|]] <br> }} )

- Supernova (Adds the number of times [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Swashbuckler (Adds the sell value of all other owned [[Jokers|]] to Mult <br> }} )

- Wrathful Joker ()

- Zany Joker ( )
 Jokers Acrobat ( )

- Ancient Joker (Each played card with [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored, <br> <small>suit changes at end of round</small> )

- Baron ()

- Baseball Card ([[Uncommon Jokers|]] )

- Blackboard ( )

- Bloodstone ( )

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} )

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Card Sharp ( )

- Cavendish ( <br> )

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} )

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver')

- Flower Pot ( if poker hand contains a card, card, card, )

- Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] )

- Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. )

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} )

- Joker Stencil ( for each empty [[Jokers|]] slot <br> <small>Joker Stencil included</small> <br> }} )

- Loyalty Card ( every hands played<br> )

- Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )

- Madness (When or is selected, gain and a random Joker <br> }} )

- Obelisk (This Joker gains per hand played without playing your most played <br> }} )

- Photograph ()

- Ramen (, )

- Seeing Double ( if played hand has a scoring card and a scoring card of any other suit Play a hand that contains <abbr title="Other suits that count as clubs (e.g. wild suits) with rank 7 will also count."></abbr> )

- Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} )

- The Duo ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Family ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, )

- The Order ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Tribe ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- The Trio ( if played hand contains a Win a run without playing a . )

- Throwback ( for each [[Blinds|]] skipped this run <br> }} )

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} )

- Yorick (This Joker gains every cards discarded<br>}} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )
Additive Mult Jokers Scholar ()

- Walkie Talkie ()
 Business Card ()

- Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Credit Card (Go up to in debt Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Faceless Joker ()

- Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Joker (Earn at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Mail-In Rebate (Earn for each discarded [[Card Ranks|]], )

- Matador ()

- Midas Mask (All played cards become [[Gold Cards|]] )

- Reserved Parking ()

- Rocket (Earn at end of round. Payout increases by when [[Blinds|]] is defeated Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Rough Gem ()

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- To Do List (Earn if [[Poker Hands|]] is a [[Poker Hands|]], )

- To the Moon (Earn an extra of for every you have at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

- Trading Card (If of round has only card, )
 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

- Astronomer (All cards and in the shop are Discover every card Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Blueprint (Copies ability of [[Jokers|]] )

- Brainstorm (Copies the ability of leftmost [[Jokers|]] Discard a . )

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, )

- Burnt Joker (Upgrade the level of the first poker hand each round Sell 50 cards. )

- Cartomancer (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when [[Blinds|]] is selected <br> Discover every Tarot Card. )

- Certificate (When round begins, add a random with a random [[Seal|]] to your hand Have a [[Gold_Cards|Gold playing card]] with a [[Gold_Seal|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chaos the Clown ( free per shop Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Chicot (Disables effect of every [[Blinds|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. )

- Diet Cola (Sell this card to create a free [[Tags|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- DNA (If of round has only card, )

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Dusk ()

- Four Fingers (All and can be made with 4 cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

- Hallucination ( chance to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when any [[Booster Packs|]] is opened <br> Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Hanging Chad ()

- Invisible Joker (After rounds, sell this card to a random Joker <br> /2}} <br> ]] from copy)}} Win a run without ever having more than Rare Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Juggler ( hand size Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Luchador (Sell this card to disable the current [[Blinds|]] Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Marble Joker (Adds one [[Stone Cards|]] card to the deck when [[Blinds|]] )

- Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Mime ()

- Mr. Bones (Prevents Death if chips scored are at least of required chips <br> Lose runs Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Mr. )

- Oops! All 6s (Doubles all [[listed probabilities| ]] <br> -> )}} In one hand, earn at least chips Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) Oops!)

- Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Riff-Raff (When [[Blind|]] is selected, create [[Common Jokers| ]] <br> )

- Séance (If [[Poker Hands|]] is a , create a random [[Spectral_Cards|]] card <br> )

- Seltzer ()

- Shortcut (Allows to be made with gaps of <br> )}} Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Showman ([[Jokers|]], [[Tarot Cards|]], [[Planet Cards|]], and [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear multiple times Reach Ante level Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Smeared Joker ( and count as the same suit, and count as the same suit Have at least [[Wild Cards|]] in your deck Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Sock and Buskin ()

- Space Joker ( chance to upgrade level of played [[Poker Hands|]] )

- Splash (Every counts in scoring Common Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Superposition (Create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card if poker hand contains an and a <br> )

- Troubadour ( hand size, <br> hand each round Win consecutive rounds by <abbr title="Discards are OK to use.">playing only 1 hand</abbr> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Turtle Bean ( hand size, reduces by each round Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

- Vagabond ()

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Vagabond?oldid=24337"

- Rare Jokers

- Effect Jokers

- Copyable Jokers

- Can Be Perishable

- Can Be Eternal

- Activates Independently Jokers

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Jokers by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-