# Familiar

face cards to your hand

Familiar is a Spectral card that destroys 1 random card in hand, then adds 3 random Enhanced Face Cards to hand.

## Usage notes

- Familiar cannot add Stone Cards (<br>), similar to Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. ) and Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. ).

- Familiar cannot be used when there is only 1 card in hand, which can happen if the player's hand size is one or the player has destroyed cards until there is only 1 card left.

- The Fragile ( 2x Eternal, Negative Standard 52-card deck, all glassAll methods of adding non-glass cards or removing glass enhancements are banned:
*[[Jokers]]: , , and 
*[[Tarot Cards]]: , , , , , , and 
*[[Spectral Cards]]: , , and 
*[[Vouchers]]: and 
*[[Booster Packs]]: Standard Pack
*[[Tags]]: ) challenge bans Familiar.

- Will always create Kings, Queens, and Jacks, even with Pareidolia (All cards are considered cards Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ).

- Familiar, alongside other card-destroying Spectral Cards Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. ), Immolate (Destroys random cards in hand, gain Available from start. ), and Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. ), will not scale Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] ) after destroying a Glass Card (<br> ). This is presumed to be a bug.

## Synergies

### Jokers

- Hologram (This Joker gains every time a is added to your deck <br> }} ): Gains X0.75 Mult from the 3 added Face cards.

- Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver'): As added Face cards are always enhanced, Familiar can prove an effective way to reach 16 Enhanced Cards in the deck faster.

- Triboulet (Played Kings and Queens each give when scored Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. ): 2 of the 3 possible ranks added by Familiar are affected by Triboulet, making the powerful xmult Triboulet provides more consistent to attain.

 - This also applies to Baron (), Shoot the Moon (Each held in hand gives Play every Heart card in your deck in one round. ) and Hit the Road (This Joker gains for every discarded this round<br> }} Discard at the same time. ), althought the probabilities are rarer for these Jokers since they require a specific rank.

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ): Can remove the innate enhancement on each Face card for X0.1 Mult each.

- Any Joker that activates with Face cards, such as Smiley Face (), Reserved Parking (), and Scary Face (), benefits from the increased amount of Face cards Familiar adds to the deck.

- Any retrigger joker (except Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )) can benefit from the innate enhancements on the added cards. This includes Mime () for any Gold Cards ( ) and Steel Cards ( ).

 - Sock and Buskin () is especially effective due to always activating on the added Face cards.

- Canio (This Joker gains when a card is destroyed <br> }} Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. ) benefits from adding Face cards that can be destroyed, and there is a chance of a face card being destroyed when this card is used. Additionally, one of the new Face cards may be a Glass Card (<br> ), which can break to provide more XMult.

### Consumables

- Aura (Add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] effect to selected card in hand Available from start. ), Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ), and Talisman (Add a [[Gold Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. ): Can further improve the enhanced cards added by Familiar.

- Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. ): Can copy the face cards with their respective enhancements.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Abandoned Deck ( Start run with no [[Card Ranks#Face cards|]] in your deck Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ): As Abandoned Deck starts with no Face Cards, it is harder to build hands with the face cards generated by Familiar.

### Jokers

- Erosion ( for each card below in your full deck <br> }} ): Familiar adds more cards to the deck than it destroys, reducing possible mult from Erosion.

- Ride the Bus (This Joker gains per hand played without a scoring card <br> }} ) Disincentivizes playing Face Cards, which Familiar adds.

- Any Joker reliant on a non-Face rank has less value with more Face cards added to the deck. This includes:

 - Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} )

 - 8 Ball ( chance for each played to create a [[Tarot Cards|]] card when scored<br> )

 - Cloud 9 (Earn for each in your at end of round <br> }} Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) )

 - Even Steven (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

 - Odd Todd (Played cards with [[Card Ranks|]] rank give when scored <br> )

 - Hack (Retrigger each played , , , )

 - Fibonacci (Each played , , , , )

 - Scholar ()

 - Walkie Talkie ()

 - Sixth Sense (If of round is a single , destroy it and create a [[Spectral Cards|]] card <br> Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) )

### Blinds

- The Plant ( ): Debuffs all Face cards, weakening the cards added by Familiar and negating the enhancements.

- The Mark ( ): All Face cards are drawn face down, making it harder to build hands with and distinguish the cards added by Familiar.

## Trivia

- In folklore and especially witchcraft, a "familiar" is a supernatural entity believed to serve and protect witches.

- Familiar is part of a trio of spectral cards with very similar effects. The other cards are Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. ) and Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. ). These three cards share the effect of destroying one card and adding enhanced cards of specific ranks (Numbered cards for Incantation, Face cards for Familiar, and Aces for Grim).

- The figure on the card resembles the Jack of Spades.

## Update History

This information has been manually compiled. Some updates may not be included yet.
0.9.3i

- Effect

 - Can no longer add Stone Cards (<br>)

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Internal | c_familiar |
| Chinese (Simplified) | 使魔 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 熟悉 |
| Dutch | Gezel |
| French | Familier |
| German | Vertrauter |
| Indonesian | Familiar |
| Italian | Famiglio |
| Japanese | ファミリア |
| Korean | 익숙함 |
| Polish | Chowaniec |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Familiar |
| Russian | Фамильяр |
| Spanish (Spain) | Familiar |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Familiar |

 d • eRS3 Consumables in Balatro The Fool (Creates the last [[Tarot Cards|]] or [[Planet Cards|]] card used during this run<br><small> excluded</small> Available from start. )

- The Magician (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The High Priestess (Creates up to random [[Planet Cards|]] cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Empress (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Emperor (Creates up to random cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Hierophant (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Lovers (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Chariot (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- Justice (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Hermit (Doubles money<br>)}} Available from start. )

- The Wheel of Fortune ( chance to add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] edition to a random [[Jokers|]] Available from start. )

- Strength (Increases rank of up to selected cards by Available from start. )

- The Hanged Man (Destroys up to selected cards Available from start. )

- Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. )

- Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. )

- The Devil (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Tower (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Star (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Moon (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Sun (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- Judgement (Creates a random [[Jokers|]] card<br> Available from start. )

- The World (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )
 Pluto (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mercury (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Uranus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Venus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Saturn (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Jupiter (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Earth (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mars (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Neptune (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Planet X ()

- Ceres ()

- Eris ()
 Familiar ()

- Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Talisman (Add a [[Gold Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Aura (Add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] effect to selected card in hand Available from start. )

- Wraith (Creates a random [[Rare Jokers| ]], sets money to Available from start. )

- Sigil (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Suits|]] Available from start. )

- Ouija (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Ranks|]]<br> hand size Available from start. )

- Ectoplasm (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random hand size Available from start. )

- Immolate (Destroys random cards in hand, gain Available from start. )

- Ankh (Create a copy of a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers <br> from copy)}} Available from start. )

- Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Hex (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers Available from start. )

- Trance (Add a [[Blue Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Medium (Add a [[Purple Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Cryptid (Create copies of selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- The Soul (Creates a [[Legendary Jokers|]] Joker <br> Available from start. )

- Black Hole (Upgrade every [[Poker Hands|]] by level Available from start. )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Familiar?oldid=23975"

- Spectral Cards

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Consumables by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-