# Medium

Medium is a Spectral card that allows the player to set the seal on 1 selected card in hand to a Purple Seal (Creates a card when <br> ).

## Usage notes

- Medium can overwrite an existing seal on a playing card.

## Strategy

- Counterintuitively, Purple Seals should be put on high value cards. This is because although they incentivize those cards to be discarded, they also incentivize those cards to be duplicated. When many of the duplicated cards are in the deck, they provide far greater value.

- Purple Seal Cards should also be duplicated with Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. ) with higher priority than other cards, even if the other cards are more powerful. This is because the new Purple Seal Cards can be used to generate more Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. ) cards, exponentially increasing the number of Purple Seals and allowing the more powerful cards to be quickly and easily duplicated later in the run.

- Purple Seals are most powerful to obtain early game, as obtaining one later does not allow it to be duplicated as much, and it will provide far less value.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Red Deck ( ) gives +1 discard, allowing the player to find and make use of Purple Seals.

### Jokers

- Drunkard ( discard each round Common Effect N/A (Passive) ) and Merry Andy ( discards each round, <br> hand size Win a run in or fewer rounds Uncommon Effect N/A (Passive) ) provide more discards, allowing the player to find and make use of Purple Seals.

- The Idol (Each played [[Card Ranks|]] of [[Card Suits|]] gives when scored<br><small>Card changes every round</small> In one hand, ), Bloodstone ( ), Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} ), Wee Joker (This Joker gains when each played is scored <br> }} ), and many other Jokers benefit from the deck fixing provided by the Tarot Cards generated by Purple Seals.

- Egg (Gains of at end of round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) and Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) ) both increase Joker sell value, making the Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. ) cards generated from Purple Seals far more valuable.

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} ) gains X0.25 Mult for every Tarot Card sold.

- Fortune Teller ( per [[Tarot Cards|]] card used this run <br> }} ) gains +1 Mult for every Tarot Card used.

- Vampire (This Joker gains per scoring played, removes card <br> }} ) and Driver's License ( if you have at least Enhanced cards in your full deck <br> }} Enhance 16 cards in your deck Rare Multiplicative Mult Independent Driver') can turn the enhancements from Tarot Cards into permanent XMult.

- Enhancement Jokers ( Stone Joker (Gives for each [[Stone Card|]] in your <br> }} ), Steel Joker (Gives for each [[Steel Cards|]] in your <br> }} ), Glass Joker (This Joker gains for every [[Glass_Cards|]] that is destroyed <br> }} Have at least [[Glass_Cards|]] ), Golden Ticket (Played [[Gold Cards|]] ), and Lucky Cat (This Joker gains every time a [[Lucky Cards|]] card triggers <br> }} )) benefit from more Tarot Cards that provide their corresponding Enhancement.

### Blinds

- The Hook ( )'s discard effect also counts for Purple Seals.

### Enhancements

- Gold Cards ( ) can be held in hand at the end of the round for $3, and allow the player to get value out of Purple Seal cards even when out of discards.

- Glass Cards (<br> ) can be duplicated easily early game, and then played late game without worry of breaking, because the player already has so many.

### Consumables

- Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. ) is both created by Purple Seals, and can create more Purple Seals, exponentially increasing the player's ability to deck fix.

- Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. ) can give at most $50, generating considerable amounts of money even without any economy Jokers if Gift Card (Add of to every [[Jokers|]] and [[Consumables|]] card at end of round Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) ) was used.

- The Hermit (Doubles money<br>)}} Available from start. ) can give at most $20, generating less but still significant amounts of money without any economy Jokers, and with less setup.

### Vouchers

- Wasteful () and Recyclomancy () grant +1 discard each, making it easier to make use of Purple Seals.

- Crystal Ball ( ) increases Consumable slots by 1, allowing for more tarot cards to be created by Purple Seals.

- Grabber () and Nacho Tong (Permanently gain an additional hand per round Play a total of 2,) grant +1 hand each, allowing the player to use more throwaway hands to find Purple Seals.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) starts with -1 consumable slot, limiting the number of Tarot Cards able to be generated by Purple Seals.

- Blast Off ( hands per round<br> discards per round<br> Joker Slots Eternal <br>Eternal <br><br>Banned [[Vouchers]]: , <br>Banned Jokers: ) starts with one fewer discard than usual.

### Jokers

- Burglar (When [[Blind|]] is selected, ) prevents the player from discarding at all.

- Ramen (, ), Green Joker ( per hand played <br> per discard <br> }} ), Banner ( ) and Delayed Gratification (Earn per if no discards are used by end of the round Common Economy N/A (Passive) ) disincentivize discarding.

### Blinds

- The Water ( ) starts with 0 discards which means that Purple Seals cannot be used for the round.

### Stakes

- On Blue Stake and higher, having one less discard can make it harder to find and make use of Purple Seals.

## Trivia

- Medium refers to an extrasensory perception a psychic can have and thus supposedly gives them the ability to mediate with spirits of different dimensions.

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Chinese (Simplified) | 灵媒 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 靈媒 |
| Dutch | Medium |
| French | Médium |
| German | Medium |
| Indonesian | Medium |
| Italian | Medium |
| Japanese | ミディアム |
| Korean | 미디엄 |
| Polish | Medium |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Médium |
| Russian | Медиум |
| Spanish (Spain) | Médium |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Médium |

 d • eRS3 Consumables in Balatro The Fool (Creates the last [[Tarot Cards|]] or [[Planet Cards|]] card used during this run<br><small> excluded</small> Available from start. )

- The Magician (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The High Priestess (Creates up to random [[Planet Cards|]] cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Empress (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Emperor (Creates up to random cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Hierophant (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Lovers (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Chariot (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- Justice (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Hermit (Doubles money<br>)}} Available from start. )

- The Wheel of Fortune ( chance to add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] edition to a random [[Jokers|]] Available from start. )

- Strength (Increases rank of up to selected cards by Available from start. )

- The Hanged Man (Destroys up to selected cards Available from start. )

- Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. )

- Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. )

- The Devil (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Tower (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Star (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Moon (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Sun (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- Judgement (Creates a random [[Jokers|]] card<br> Available from start. )

- The World (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )
 Pluto (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mercury (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Uranus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Venus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Saturn (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Jupiter (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Earth (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mars (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Neptune (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Planet X ()

- Ceres ()

- Eris ()
 Familiar (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Face cards|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Talisman (Add a [[Gold Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Aura (Add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] effect to selected card in hand Available from start. )

- Wraith (Creates a random [[Rare Jokers| ]], sets money to Available from start. )

- Sigil (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Suits|]] Available from start. )

- Ouija (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Ranks|]]<br> hand size Available from start. )

- Ectoplasm (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random hand size Available from start. )

- Immolate (Destroys random cards in hand, gain Available from start. )

- Ankh (Create a copy of a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers <br> from copy)}} Available from start. )

- Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Hex (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers Available from start. )

- Trance (Add a [[Blue Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Medium ()

- Cryptid (Create copies of selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- The Soul (Creates a [[Legendary Jokers|]] Joker <br> Available from start. )

- Black Hole (Upgrade every [[Poker Hands|]] by level Available from start. )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Medium?oldid=24043"

- Spectral Cards

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Consumables by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-