# Trance

Trance is a Spectral card that allows the player to set the seal on 1 selected card in hand to a Blue Seal (Creates the card for final played [[Poker Hands|]] of round if in hand<br> ). This effect can serve as a very lenient mean of upgrading the player's ideal poker hand. Given how shops will not always contain the player's desired Planet Card, this ensures that they can scale the ideal poker hand much more comfortably.

## Usage notes

- Trance can overwrite an existing Seal on a playing card.

- Blue Seals only generate the Planet Card for the final played poker hand of round, which means it is a good idea to estimate the player's hand's strength and see if it can win the Blind, as clearing the Blind with another poker hand will not generate the player's wanted Planet Card, wasting a level.

## Synergies

### Decks

- Magic Deck ( Start run with the voucher and copies of Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) starts with the Crystal Ball voucher, allowing for up to 3 Planet cards to be generated per round starting at Ante 1.

- Ghost Deck ( [[Spectral Cards|]] cards may appear in the shop, start with a card Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) makes Trance much easier to find.

### Jokers

- Constellation (This Joker gains every time a [[Planet_Cards|]] card is used <br> }} ) is guaranteed to gain at least X0.1 Mult if you have a Blue Seal in your hand and a consumable slot available. This can go up to X0.3 Mult per round, making this an incredibly powerful combo.

- Satellite (Earn at end of round per unique card used this run Have at least . Uncommon Economy N/A (Passive) ) can be upgraded with Blue Seals if your last played Poker Hand is one that has not been leveled up yet.

- Mime () retriggers Blue Seals, giving 2 Planet Cards per seal instead of 1.

- Baron () gives X1.5 Mult for each Blue Seal King held in hand.

- Reserved Parking () has a 1 in 2 chance of giving $1 for each Blue Seal Face Card held in hand.

- Perkeo (Creates a [[Negative|]] copy of random [[Consumables|]] card in your possession at the end of the [[The Shop|]] Find this [[Jokers|Joker]] from the [[Spectral Cards|]] card. Legendary Effect N/A (Passive) ) can duplicate the Planet Card generated by the Blue Seal, providing considerable XMult when paired with Observatory ([[Planet Cards|]] cards in your [[Consumables|]] area give for their specified [[Poker Hands|]] Use a total of [[Planet|]] ).

- Campfire (This Joker gains for each card , resets when [[Blinds|]] is defeated <br> }} ) gains X0.25 Mult for every Planet Card sold.

### Vouchers

- Crystal Ball ( ) allows for up to 3 Planet cards to be made with Blue Seals.

- Observatory ([[Planet Cards|]] cards in your [[Consumables|]] area give for their specified [[Poker Hands|]] Use a total of [[Planet|]] ) can give up to X3.375 Mult for a specific Poker Hand (not including Negative ( Joker or Consumable slot Edition Joker (Negative).png) copies) and Blue Seals are the easiest way to get a specific Planet Card into the consumable slots.

### Enhancements

- Gold Cards ( ) also trigger if held in hand at the end of the round, giving $3.

- Steel Cards ( ) also trigger when held in hand, giving X1.5 Mult.

## Anti-Synergies

### Decks

- Nebula Deck ( Start run with the voucher <br> consumable slot Win a run with the on [[Stakes|any difficulty]] ) removes a consumable slot, making Blue Seals less efficient.

## Trivia

- A Trance is defined as a half-conscious mental state determined by absence of exposure to external stimuli.

## In other languages

| Language | Name |
|---|---|
| Chinese (Simplified) | 入迷 |
| Chinese (Traditional) | 入迷 |
| Dutch | Trance |
| French | Transe |
| German | Trance |
| Indonesian | Trance |
| Italian | Trance |
| Japanese | トランス |
| Korean | 트랜스 |
| Polish | Trans |
| Portuguese (Brazilian) | Transe |
| Russian | Транс |
| Spanish (Spain) | Trance |
| Spanish (Latin America) | Trance |

 d • eRS3 Consumables in Balatro The Fool (Creates the last [[Tarot Cards|]] or [[Planet Cards|]] card used during this run<br><small> excluded</small> Available from start. )

- The Magician (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The High Priestess (Creates up to random [[Planet Cards|]] cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Empress (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Emperor (Creates up to random cards<br> Available from start. )

- The Hierophant (Enhances selected cards to [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Lovers (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Chariot (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- Justice (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Hermit (Doubles money<br>)}} Available from start. )

- The Wheel of Fortune ( chance to add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] edition to a random [[Jokers|]] Available from start. )

- Strength (Increases rank of up to selected cards by Available from start. )

- The Hanged Man (Destroys up to selected cards Available from start. )

- Death (Select cards, convert the card into the card<br> Available from start. )

- Temperance (Gives the total sell value of all current [[Jokers]]<br> }} Available from start. )

- The Devil (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Tower (Enhances selected card into a [[Card Modifiers|]] Available from start. )

- The Star (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Moon (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- The Sun (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )

- Judgement (Creates a random [[Jokers|]] card<br> Available from start. )

- The World (Converts up to selected cards to Available from start. )
 Pluto (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mercury (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Uranus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Venus (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Saturn (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Jupiter (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Earth (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Mars (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Neptune (Increases hand value by and Available from start. )

- Planet X ()

- Ceres ()

- Eris ()
 Familiar (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Face cards|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Grim (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Aces|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Incantation (Destroy random card in your hand, add random [[Card_Modifiers#Enhancements|]] [[Card Ranks#Number cards|]] to your hand Available from start. )

- Talisman (Add a [[Gold Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Aura (Add [[Foil|]], [[Holographic|]], or [[Polychrome|]] effect to selected card in hand Available from start. )

- Wraith (Creates a random [[Rare Jokers| ]], sets money to Available from start. )

- Sigil (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Suits|]] Available from start. )

- Ouija (Converts all cards in hand to a single random [[Card Ranks|]]<br> hand size Available from start. )

- Ectoplasm (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random hand size Available from start. )

- Immolate (Destroys random cards in hand, gain Available from start. )

- Ankh (Create a copy of a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers <br> from copy)}} Available from start. )

- Deja Vu (Add a [[Red Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Hex (Add [[Card Modifiers#Editions|]] to a random [[Jokers|]], destroy all other Jokers Available from start. )

- Trance ()

- Medium (Add a [[Purple Seal|]] to selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- Cryptid (Create copies of selected card in your hand Available from start. )

- The Soul (Creates a [[Legendary Jokers|]] Joker <br> Available from start. )

- Black Hole (Upgrade every [[Poker Hands|]] by level Available from start. )

| |
|---|
| | |
| | |
| | |

Retrieved from "https://balatrowiki.org/w/Trance?oldid=24183"

- Spectral Cards

- Pages using DynamicPageList4

- Consumables by number

## Navigation menu

- Create account

- Log in

- Page

- Discussion

- Read

- Edit

- Edit source

- View history

 Search

- Discord

- Main page

- Recent changes

- Random page

- All Jokers

- Common

- Uncommon

- Rare

- Legendary

- Tarot Cards

- Planet Cards

- Spectral Cards

- Decks

- Vouchers

- Card Modifiers

- Booster Packs

- Skip Tags

- Blinds & Antes

- Stakes

- Poker Hands

- The Shop

- Collection

- Achievements

- Updates

- Game Mechanics

- What links here

- Related changes

- Printable version

- Permanent link

- Page information

- Special pages

- View buckets

- Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; additional terms may apply.

- Privacy policy

- About Balatro Wiki

- Disclaimers

- Terms of Use

- Contact Weird Gloop

-

-